# Introduction

Right now is an amazing time to be alive. The human experience is as
rich and delightful as ever and every day carries the promise of a
better world. Not everyone sees it that way, but on the whole, "Team
People" is doing very well. We have come a long way and that's
something worth taking a step back to appreciate. But the current path
is not sustainable. Governments are transferring more wealth than ever
from the poor to the rich. We are rapidly approaching a point where we
must adapt or perish. The short view of history tempts pessimism. We
might see the recent steps backward as the triumph of evil over good,
or at least a turn toward mutual annihilation. They are merely the
steps backward in a long progression of one step backward and two
steps forward.

A truly free society does not exist just because we have been
convinced we are free. A truly free society cannot exist when we have
been so thoroughly propagandized as to define "freedom" in terms of
government-granted privilege rather than as a universal moral
principle. However, a free society is inevitable because the global
paradigm is shifting as we learn how to better assert our right of
self-ownership.

We all know life is better with freedom - that our own individual
experiences don't mean nearly as much without the ability to assert
our will, rather than having our choices limited by force. Many of us
today still experience lives dominated by the edicts of others. Many
still live under the threat of death from war. While some are doing
relatively well and enjoying a great deal of personal wealth and
autonomy, many are not. Even those who are doing well are living in a
less vibrant and robust environment due to violations of individual
freedom around the world.

Any act of violence or threat of violence between individuals
represents a violation of someone's freedom. The great illusion of the
current paradigm of statism is that governments achieve a worthwhile
reduction of violence. Governments are the greatest cause of violence
in the world today. They are coercive monopolies with only an illusion
of public support. Everything they do is based on a presumed right to
point guns at people who are acting peacefully.

Many of us are dependent on government, and because it takes on a
large role in society, one can claim that everyone benefits to some
degree. This doesn't mean the benefits justify the cost, and the vast
majority of us experience a net loss due to government. Even if we are
convinced that most people have a net gain from government, we can
always do better without using violence.

Freedom is the ability to exercise your will within your rights
without the threat of force from anyone else. It's really that
simple. You own yourself. No one can claim even partial ownership over
you without violating your rights. By abolishing statism we will
achieve a world free of miserable victims and miserable
victimizers. We will create a world in which all relations are free of
force and coercion. We will see each other as partners in the human
experience, united in our desire to live free and realize our
potential. We are destined to build a society based on respect and
cooperation.
